The Joe Rogan.
Experience. Uh, no. I'm 34 this year. Yeah. Well,
you look great. Thank.
You. <laugh> when did you start training?
Um, I, I did my first Mo class when I turned 24. Wow. Yeah.
So I called it my.
Maybe that's a thing, right?
Like you don't have the wear and tear of like a lot of people start when they're
10 and you know, by the time they get to 24,
they already got they're all NCL up and back a mess and neck. And it.
Probably stunts your growth too a little bit. I don't know. I,
I feel like some something happens if you cut.
Weight. It certainly does. Yeah.
So, yeah, I didn't, I didn't really do any sports after, I guess,
middle school from middle school
through high school to college. And then after college, I didn't do. Like I was,
did you do anything? Nah, I was skinny fat, so I didn't have to <laugh>.
But you didn't work out or nothing? Nah.
It didn't work out. That's crazy. It's weird.
If you see a picture of me from like right after college it's I look like this
little, any like stick figure,
like just soft girl. It's really weird.
So like when people see me now they're like, holy. Like.
Of people from back then. Yeah. Yeah. Well they must be freaking out now.
Like she's a what? Yeah, she's in the what? She's a UFC contender. I know. Get.
The outta here. No, Angela funny. Yeah, exactly. Like,
and that was so different. Well, not different, but I was like super quiet,
like all my life, like in high school, especially college,
like I was always just like really shy and really like soft spoken. That's.
Surprising cuz you're very funny on Twitter. Oh, thank you. On.
Twitter. You're hilarious. I was always funny. <laugh> you.
Always funny to just nobody knew it.
Yeah. <laugh> I kept it to myself. I cracked myself up all day, but um,
but yeah, like I'm, I'm just super shy.
Like always awkward around like new people, new settings.
And like I had my tightknit group of friends,
but like I was never like the popular kid by any means. So what.
Brought you into Mo Thai class?
A workout? You just needed something to do. It's just fat. Yeah.
<laugh> I just got married and um, and I also had an office job.
I was working at an animation studio and uh, before that I had been bartending,
so I was like moving around and doing stuff and I never really felt like
inactive, but once I at the bar job and was just doing that full time,
I just felt like fat and lazy and greasy. And <laugh>, you know,
everything that happens from like sitting down all day. Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean,
you know, you like, you do all sorts of outside of this just to like, you know,
stay happy. So.
Yeah. Right.
The fear of death and the attitude of the finite life being
insignificant that like what is the point? Yeah.
This sort of existential angst that many of us struggle with, right? Yeah.
Right. That's something that you, you touch upon really early on that this,
this thing that makes us unique is that we know that we're.
Gonna die. Yeah, yeah. That,
that to me is the vital distinguishing feature of our
species. You know, we can reflect on the past,
we can think about the future and recognize that we're not gonna be here in the
future at least for some period of time. And it's, um,
it's an idea and it's powerful.
Motivating influence is one that has been explored throughout the ages.
Uh,
Aran who's one of the early disciples of Freud who ultimately broke with Freud,
uh, developed this thesis that our awareness of our own mortality as
one of the driving factors in what we did. And then when I was,
I don't know it was in my twenties or thirties.
I read a book by a guy named Ernest Becker called denial of death.
I dunno if you've ever heard of this book. No, it was,
it was big in the seventies and one actually the Pultz prize in the seventies.
And it's a wonderful distillation of this way of thinking about
why we humans do what we do. And in many ways in my own book,
the one that's coming out actually today until the end of time, it's, um,
it's extending this notion that Becker developed in denial
of death.
But now seeing it in a cosmological setting because it's not just we that are
going to die,
it's every structure in the universe is going to disintegrate in
time. Our,
our best theory suggests to us that even protons the very heart of matter,
there are quantum processes that in the far future will ensure that every
proton, disintegrates falls apart into its constituent particles.
And at that point there's no complex matter at all. What, what,
what timeline are we talking about here? Well, pretty, pretty big,
long timeline. In fact,
I'd like to use a metaphor to try to give you a feel for the times involved. Um,
I like to use the empire state building and imagine that every floor of the
empire state building represents a duration 10 times out of the previous floor.
So like on the ground floor, it's like one year, first floor, 10 year,
second floor, a hundred and so forth.
So you're going exponentially far in time as you climb up the empire state
building. And uh, in that scheme of things,
everything from the big bang until today, you're about at the 10th floor,
10 to the 10 years, 10 billion years. And, uh, as you go forward,
you are looking at things very far in the future. And to answer your question,
we think,
and I underscore think because we are now at the speculative end of our
theoretical ideas,
protons will decay roughly and say by the 38th floor,
so 10 to the 38 years.
And, uh, I get a phone call via buddy of mine from college connects me to this,
uh, this guy, uh,
this Icelandic guy I've never met him before his name's fi Paul don't know his
story. I do now he's an absolute legend. Um, and he says, Hey man,
you were just in Antarctica. Right. And I was like, yeah. And he's like,
I think we should go back to Antarctica. And I was like, all right, well,
what are you thinking? He's like in a rowboat,
I think we should row a boat from the Southern tip of south America to the
peninsula of Antarctica across Drake passage. How far is that? About 700 miles.
Can I see what that.
Looks like on a map?
Um, and I said, please delete my phone number. <laugh>.
700 Miles row your boat.
Uh, yes. So Drake passage is known to be, um, you know, in seafaring,
one of the most Treacher,
if not the most treacherous kind of passage way in the world, you know,
you've gotten, you know,
the Atlantic and the Pacific and the Southern ocean kind of all converging
between the Antarctica peninsula and the Southern tip of south America.
So you got 40 foot swells, you got, you know,
crazy waves icebergs as you get close to Antarctica. Um, and the, uh,
the mission or the go goal was to see if we could, uh, there it is. Right.
There's that's it? That whole area, that whole area. Yeah, there, there,
from there to there, um, all the way down. Yeah, the main,
the main peninsula there. How long did this take? So ultimately, uh, it took us,
uh, just less than two weeks to do the entire row, but it was a,
a long journey in the planning from that phone call all the way through to that
year. But it was a, it was a two week or 12 day crossing. So in.
The two weeks you had to have two weeks worth of food,
two weeks worth of drinking water on.
The boat. Yeah. So, well water, actually, we have a desalinated so off of, um,
really off of, uh, solar panels, everything's, you know, solar there's no,
you know, engine, no sale, nothing like that.
It's just completely human powered rowing.
We have a portable desalinated yeah. Help big. Is.
It, um, it fits inside one of the tiny, so the boat's tiny, the boat's like 20,
25 feet long, three guys row at a time.
So six of us total and the team ultimately, um, you know,
barely anywhere to sleep in this tiny little compartments,
like the size of like, you know, sleeping in the back of a, you know,
hatchback of a Honda civic or something like that. Um, but, uh,
but yeah,
so you've got this desal that's basically kind of in one of the central
compartments. So it's probably like, I don't know,
maybe two feet by two feet square, something like that. Um, and I mean, doesn't,
doesn't make water real fast. You can make 10 liters of water in like, you know,
an hour or two, depending on this. How, how hot the sun good is good,
but I mean, it gets it done. Yeah. It gets it done. Does it taste like.
Whale? What, what.
Does the water taste like? It would was weird as we got closer to Antarctica,
I think it started messing up because it got real salty.
Like it wasn't doing quite as good of a job. The water, oh,
near Antarctica was like one degree Celia.
So 33 FHE me practically frozen cold water.
And I think that was kind of starting to tweak out the system. They don't.
Want my money. They don't want anything. I have to offer them.
I want what they have.
That was sort of a game changer moment for me.
I wanna figure out how to be connected with nothing.
What did these guys do all day? <laugh>.
I don't know. They all did different stuff. I think. Yeah, everybody does.
And every Aros got their own thing. You know what I mean? Did.
You have chores that you had to do to, to earn your food? Like yeah.
Everybo, you know, every ashram is gonna be different and every, uh,
spiritual path there's Christian monks and, you know,
monks from different traditions around the world,
I'm sure they all got their thing, different things.
But later I started doing my next band because the interesting thing about the
Vaga Vada Vaga vadas,
you're familiar with it's one chapter of the biggest epic in the world,
the Maha Bart, and it's a,
it's the most studied and disgusted and it on by all the saints
of ancient India, um, people even bringing it to politics and stuff,
but it's a real conversation between the spirit
and dev divinity. It's a conversation about, uh,
just about, it's just, it's just considered ancient wisdom for all people.
So the one of the ideas,
so the GDA is you don't give up what you're born to do.
You do what you do, but in a spiritual way,
you don't try to like wipe out your desires. It's not gonna happen.
You take what you do and you do it in a way that is gonna assist you
in your liberation. And is it gonna assist everybody else? So, um,
even I'll say I love comedy,
but I want comedy that uplifts me and not doesn't degrade me.
I like entertainment that when I walk away from it, I learn something.
I feel like I'm growing. I feel connected. I don't want stuff.
That's gonna just give me darker thoughts.
Like the joker.
I I'm never seen it. You didn't see it. I didn't I'm.
I wanna say that I live on a farm <laugh> I live on a farm.
We rare, I rarely watch anything except comedy. I love comedy. Um,
cause I think laughing's important. Um, but I don't watch so much TV.
Um, so I'm, I'm, I'm pretty, if I do go to the movie movies,
it's out of like with my wife, let's just, we wanna get away from the kids.
We wanna do something. Right. Um, but there's no plan on what to watch,
but I'm open to good ideas.
The jokers, a really good movie, but it's really dark. It's really dark.
Like you walk outta there feeling really confused. Like you're like,
did I like that? I don't know if I like that. I know it was awesome.
I know it was really well done, but did I like that?